1. HTTP1.1 vs HTTP 2

HTTP means Hypertext transfer protocal

It is used for Client - Server communication. By using HTTP user sends the request to the server & the server sends the response to the user.


HTTP 1.1 :
1. Created on 1997
2. keeps all requests and responses in plain text format
3. It uses requests resource Inlining for use getting multiple pages.
4. Multipt TCP Request. Head of line blocking in which TCP connection is blocked all other requests until the response does not receive. all the information related to the header file is repeated in every request.

HTTP 2 :
1. Created on 2015
2. keeps all requests and responses in Binary format
3. It uses PUSH frame by server that collects all multiple pages.
4. It works on fully multiplexed that is one TCP connection is used for multiple requests

Launching of the HTTP/2 was an attempt to overcome the limitations of HTTP/1.1 and make it a more efficient web protocol. So, the major differences in these two are mainly the additions or upgrades applied in HTTP/2. Let’s see what they are:

The Background
For better contextualization of the certain alterations that HTTP/2 made to its precursor, we’ll take a quick look at their basic functionalities and development details first.

HTTP/1.1

HTTP protocol was developed in 1989 as the common language that enables client and server machines’ interaction. Process steps are as enlisted:

The client (browser) has to send a request to the server using the method (GET/POST).
Server responds with the requested resource, for example – image, alongside the status of what it did to the client’s request.
Keep in mind that this is not a one-time process. Such requests and responses needs to be transferred between both these machines until the client receives all the resources, essential to load a web page on the end-user’s (your) screen.

This request-response exchange can be regarded as an IP stack being handled by transfer layer and networking layers before finally reaching to the application layer. Now, let’s see how HTTP/2 handles the same scenario.

HTTP/2

HTTP/2 was released at Google as the significant improvement of its predecessor. It was initially modeled after the SPDY protocol and went through significant changes to include features like multiplexing, header compression, and stream prioritization to minimize page load latency. After its release, Google announced that it would not provide support for SPDY in favor of HTTP/2.

The major feature that differentiates HTTP/2 from HTTP/1.1 is the binary framing layer. Unlike HTTP/1.1, HTTP/2 uses a binary framing layer. This layer encapsulates messages – converted to its binary equivalent – while making sure that its HTTP semantics (method details, header information, etc.) remain untamed. This feature of HTTP/2 enables gRPC to use lesser resources.

Delivery Models
As discussed before, HTTP/1.1 sends messages as plain text, and HTTP/2 encodes them into binary data and arranges them carefully. This implies that HTTP/2 can have various delivery models.

Most of the time, a client's initial response in return for an HTTP GET request is not the fully-loaded page. Fetching additional resources from the server requires that the client send repeated requests, break or form the TCP connection repeatedly for them.

As you can conclude already, this process will consume lots of resources and time.

HTTP/1.1

HTTP/1.1 addresses this problem by creating a persistent connection between server and client. Until explicitly closed, this connection will remain open. So, the client can use one TCP connection throughout the communication sans interrupting it again and again.

This approach surely ensures good performance, but it also is problematic.

For example – If a request at the queue head cannot retrieve its required resources, it can block all requests behind it. This phenomenon is called head-of-line blocking (HOL blocking).

From the above, we can conclude that multiple TCP connections are essential.

HTTP/2

Considering the bottleneck in the previous scenario, the HTTP/2 developers introduced a binary framing layer. This layer partitions requests and responses in tiny data packets and encodes them. Due to this, multiple requests and responses become able to run parallelly with HTTP/2 and chances of HOL blocking are bleak.

Not only has it solved the HOL blocking problem in HTTP/1.1, but it also concurrent message exchange between the client and the server. This way, both of them can have more control while the connection management quality is boosted too.

The problems of HTTP/1.1 looks resolved to a great extent here. However, at times, multiple data streams demanding the same resource can hinder HTTP/2’s performance. To achieve better performance, HTTP/2 has another way. It has the capability of stream prioritization.

When sending streams in parallel, the client can assign weights (1-256) to its stream to prioritize the responses it demands. Here, the higher the weight, the higher the priority. The serve sets the data retrieval order as per the request’s weight. Programmers can enjoy better control on page rendering process with stream prioritization ability.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Objects and its Internal Representation in Javascript


A JavaScript object is a collection of unordered properties. Properties can usually be changed, added, and deleted, but some are read only.

Objects in JavaScript are very much similar to the objects in real-life. We can see a lot of Objects around us in this real world, each with its own set of properties. For instance let us take a table in the real world, it has its own properties like height, width, and length etc. 
Similarly all the Objects in the JavaScript are associated with its own set of properties.

Example:

Var Candidate = {
'FirstName' : "Harish",
'LastName' : "Raajaa",
'PhoneNumber' : "12345678",
'email' : "abc@gmail.com:}

To Accessing Object Properties

objectName.propertyName  -> Candidate.email

or 

objectName["propertyName"]  -> Candidate["email"]


Object Methods:

Objects can also have methods. Methods are actions that can be performed on objects. Methods are stored in properties as function definitions.

var Candidate = {
  firstName: "Harish",
  lastName : "Raajaa",
  id       : 797993,
  fullName : function() {
    return this.firstName + " " + this.lastName;
  }
};


Objects are like Key pair storage. it is also easily accessible by looping methods to display the key and values.

for (let key in Candidate) {
    console.log(key);
} 

